I'm Wesley Morris and this is
Cannonball. Today streaming killed the
video.
I'm not happy to say it, but it's true.
[Music]
The VMAs are this week, the Video Music
Awards. Did you know that? Do you care?
Does Does anybody care? I'm going to try
to make you care because it's a weird
and interesting time for the music
video. MTV, the place they used to live,
music videos, music television, they
gave up on these things, I don't know,
20 years ago, but like a billion people
are still watching them on the regular
on YouTube. So, I'm going to talk about
the State of the Music video with my pal
and fellow critic, Naila Our, and we're
going to look at the video of the year
nominees because some of them are really
good.
[Music]
>> Uh, Naila, hi.
>> Hey, Wesley.
>> Welcome back to Cannonball.
>> Thank you for having me back. You're our
first repeat guest.
>> I'm honored. I'm honored to be the first
repeat guest.
>> It won't be the last time. Um, all
right. So,
I'm going to just set a scene for you.
>> It is 1982.
>> And my parents divorced just like, you
know, my mom couldn't take it. My dad
was like, "All right."
>> Mhm.
>> And one of my favorite things about my
parents getting a divorce, cuz it wasn't
it didn't feel that painful. That's a
therapy conversation. But I remember
loving this divorce business because it
meant two houses
>> and it meant or two households and one
of those households had something called
cable television.
And on cable television I there was MTV.
>> The network was new at this point. It
would have been maybe two years old. A
year old, two years old. And it was just
the most exciting thing ever because it
was the radio.
>> Yeah.
>> With pictures.
>> And I remember the weekends we would go
to my dad's house, my sister and I, I
would make a beline right up to the room
I was sleeping in and just watch MTV all
day long. I would watch it until I felt
like I got to the end where like
I've seen every breath you take three
times today.
>> I think I've seen all the videos they
have to offer.
>> Cuz I didn't want to miss anything. I
didn't want to miss one video.
>> And so I would sit there like as a
six-year-old or seven-year-old and just
be like,
>> I think I can turn it off now. When did
you consciously remember the video being
a part of your life?
>> I think probably in the late 90s, early
2000s. There was this channel called The
Box.
>> Oh, yes.
>> And you could call up and request a
video.
>> Mhm.
>> And I remember just watching that
channel all day. Like when we were
grateful enough to have cable cuz we
didn't always have cable, but when we
did.
>> So, how old were you when you got it? Do
you remember?
>> Probably 10 or 11.
>> Okay. And I would just watch videos all
day. You know, Nellie's hot in here.
>> Was one of those ones that I saw a
million times. Uh Pink when she still
was like an R&B singer. When I was in
middle school, I got a little older. I
feel like my whole social life was
organized around music videos. Like I
would wake up in the morning, there
would be like a block on MTV and then we
would I would go to school and talk
about music videos. I would rush home to
watch either TRL on MTV,
>> Total Request Live, hosted by Carson
Dailyaly,
>> Carson Dailyaly, and then maybe 106 and
Park on BET, but it was like my whole
day was just structured around when I
would get to see music videos and when I
would get to talk about them.
>> I'm curious like what like
why
why the music video? Like what was it
about that art form that that magnetized
you from the minute your bell rang to
send you home from school?
>> I mean part of it is just like FOMO or
whatever it was before that term came up
>> because people were talking about
>> people were talking about it at school.
you want to be a part of the
conversation. But also, I think it was
just sort of like I think clueing me
into the idea that like the song is one
thing, but there could also be this
other interpretation by a director or a
producer or what have you, that was
slightly different. And there was a
slightly more oblique take on the same
exact material. And I I was like really
excited by that. And maybe there's some
part of me that like was like a
protocritic critic sprouting in that
moment because you're like, "Okay, this
is how I imagined it in my head, but
this is somebody else's take on that
very same material."
>> But it also it feels important to say
that it wasn't just MTV. I mean, you
mentioned BET and VH1. Each one of these
networks was doing a different thing.
Mhm.
>> MTV, I would say, was much more about
what was basically hot in one way or
another according to the charts, but
also just if you were a white person who
could get a music video made, MTV would
probably play it.
>> VH1 was much more focused on women.
>> Um, that to me was a was the Women's
Music Video Network. Um, VH1 was where
the women lived and BET was where I
would say
urban contemporary black people lived
cuz they weren't playing any hip-hop on
BET.
>> MTV really was the first place to start
playing rap videos.
>> The first of those three networks to
start playing rap videos. Anyway, the
point is they were like radio stations
for videos and they had a format.
>> Yeah, that's true. And you knew if you
wanted to see a Naji video,
>> you knew to go see Naji do his thing on
BET in the afternoons.
>> Uhhuh.
>> And that was also exciting to me. I
could watch my Poison. I could watch my
Naji and I could see a Kate Bush video.
Well, if I flip channels, I could see
them all in like 10 minutes.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> But that was how I would spend my
summers. Um, what are some videos that
you could not wait to see?
or that you remember seeing because I
mean for me, you know, I remember the
day Thriller premiered, right?
>> I mean, I guess that's not hard like
where were you when a planet
>> when a different planet hit this planet?
Yes, that's not hard to forget, but I
can definitely remember the the thriller
premiere. It was defin It was at my
father's house and it was I saw it for
the first time.
>> I think it was like 2:00 in the
afternoon. It's a good time to see that
music video
>> on a Saturday.
>> And I just remember sitting there being
completely
>> eroticized.
>> Get away.
>> I don't know. There was something about
his transformation from Michael to the
werewolf
>> that as a kid I was like,
>> I don't know what's happening right now,
but
>> this is kind of sexy.
And the look on on on Ola Ray's face as
he's doing it and she's, you know, she's
mostly repulsed, but there's a little
tiny bit of like,
>> but wait a minute.
>> Yeah, there's definitely some titilation
there.
>> Yeah.
>> Um,
>> that was mine. That was mine.
>> Yeah. I mean, one of the earliest music
videos that transfixed me was Missy
Elliot's The Rain.
>> Oo.
>> Yeah. And it was just like I'd never
seen anything like it before in my life.
Like first of all, there's the trash bag
imagery, which is iconic at this point.
>> She just Missy Elliot in these inflated
trash bag, what what we're calling
inflated trash bag suits
>> and the the helium that seemed to fill
them
>> and made her like airless, weightless,
>> but it was sort of subversive in that it
was seeming to comment on her own weight
and the way that she was perceived in
the industry as a a heavier woman. And
then you also had her like in these like
kind of slightly
absurd tableau. She's sitting on a hill.
She's wearing a wig, you know, she's
referencing Lauren Hill. Like there's
just something like
>> interesting and and um riddleike about
all of the imagery. And I just couldn't
understand it. So
>> it was weird. It was a very bizarre
expression of this artist. And I mean it
was not that regular to experience black
people doing really just truly weird
things.
>> Yes.
>> Right. I mean we were sexy. We were hot.
We could dance. I mean we understood how
to be on camera. But this was something
else. Yep.
>> Right. This was somebody sort of mocking
the priorities of of at least, you know,
an entire wing of music video
iconography to invent something new.
>> And then I think I also like really
enjoyed the bad boy videos of the mid
and late 90s.
>> Who not? Like the shiny suit era was my
like time when I was coming into an
awakening around music videos
>> and you would see Huff Daddy and Mace
and the whole cadre of bad boy artists
like flossing and gesturing and just
like making love to the camera as they
>> the camera was very much a part of
>> that era's aesthetic and the artist. I
mean, it's one thing to know the camera
is present, but to treat the camera
>> almost as a person, right? Like a person
who is there to be entertained
>> by the antics before it. And to just
like walk up to it and like put your
face in fish and I hate Williams fisheye
lens was really something.
>> Yeah. And it's also I'm you're looking
at me, but I'm looking at you.
>> Yes. You know, this is like a two-way
thing here. It was all about radiating
success, you know. But then you start to
like I developed a sense of what a good
music video is and I'm curious about
what your
what your priorities were as a viewer
for what what types of videos worked for
you. So I'm going to like offer some
taxonomy here.
>> Um get my notebook.
I would say there may be like five basic
video styles there. There are probably a
few more. Feel free to contribute to
this.
>> Okay. And I would say that they're
exemplified
by individual artists.
>> The individual artist tends to be the
person who defines what the music video
is. There are lots of important videos
made by bands and groups.
>> But the people who keep redefining the
format. So you mean the iconic people,
there's maybe four or five. Madonna,
Michael Jackson, Janet Jackson,
>> Bork.
>> Feel free to add somebody else to that.
I'm going to use Madonna, by the way,
>> as the as the exemplar of these. Janet
Jackson is just as good. You can sub out
all my Madonna's with a Janet Jackson,
>> cuz I think these two people are equals
in some way.
>> The portrait, I would say Madonna's
cherish video, for instance. The video
where she's just black, black, blue and
white on the beach, wet the whole time.
I mean, it's just like metaphor city,
you know, like frolicking on the beach
with some mermen with like there's a
shot in this video of a tail just
slithering back into the ocean.
>> It is It's very hot, but also it's like
a sweet thing cuz she's like holding
this little merch child, this little
black merch child. It's just I don't
know. It's very It's a very sweet erotic
video. um the single story location
situation
>> where we don't get a lot of costume
changes. We're not doing heavily
choreographed. There could be some like
dancing in it, but it's essentially
communicating an idea based upon the
theme of the song. Like if we're talking
about Madonna, open your heart.
The other one, the live performance.
>> Okay.
>> The Great Ones don't do a lot of these.
I think you and I might agree they're
cheating
>> a little bit. Yeah. But I love Whitney
Houston's um at all.
>> Oh, there's another one.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, yeah. So emotional is the one for me
>> cuz some of these people you didn't know
if they could sing or not. You didn't
know if they were factory or studio
creatures. And Whitney, I mean,
obviously she could sing, but like I
think that video really drives it home.
I would say Madonna's version of that is
Dress You Up,
>> which the Dress You Up video is just
like a it's a actual live performance
>> from her Like a Virgin tour.
>> And she sounds great. She's kind of
rethought the song at that point. A very
good sales pitch for what I found out
later was the home video for the tour.
>> Oh,
>> we'll get into like what the video what
the purpose of the videos were, but that
was one of them. So uh then there's like
the high concept long form movie
[Music]
category which is basically you know
like a prayer is a little bit of this
Madonna's bad girl video where she's
you know a bad girl and it's directed by
a very good director and there's like a
single there's a single story but you're
we're leaving the world of the song to
tell it
>> right so there's a lot of preamble you
know postamble like there might be an
epilogue dog. Oh, father is the other
Madonna video that does this. And then
there's like the bunch of scenes
>> that hopefully are going to go
somewhere.
>> You know, that's your that is the sweet
spot of the music video, right? Like we
got a costume designer. They brought all
these clothes. I can't pick one outfit.
So, y'all got to find me some scenes to
wear these clothes in. That is most
music videos. But the great the great
music video artists don't do a lot of
like hopefully this all adds up to
something. They really do have a concept
for what the music video is, but every
once in a while somebody gets lazy
>> and they take the concept, but they're
like, "But I also like this other
outfit. What if we stay with the vibe
>> of the original concept, but then we
like incorporate some other stuff?" Like
Madonna's Frozen video is a little bit
like this.
>> Like how does this Am I Do you like what
I'm laying out here? Does this make
sense?
>> I I think that's a really good taxonomy.
I don't think I can add to the taxonomy
um very substantively, but I can
highlight a few tropes that I I know
from from music videos.
>> Are these Can you can you frame these as
dos and don'ts? Things you like and
don't like? Do you have pet peeves?
>> Well, okay. I think I think my dos and
don'ts are slightly separate from the
tropes.
>> Okay, let's talk about some tropes. But
some of the tropes are like I think from
the '8s one would be to have a metal
gate somewhere a metal fence a chain
like
>> from don't love got to do with it.
>> Also
>> where the where the camera is sort of
speeding along the
>> Yes. Or like some evocative shot of a
hand on the gate. So I'm thinking of
Shaka Khan's I feel for you.
>> Yes. There's a fence in that gate.
There's a fence in that one.
>> Another good portrait video.
>> Another good portrait video. I think
there's also like the Posi video, you
know.
>> Oh, yes.
>> Um, particularly in hip-hop, you'll just
have like a bunch of people going back
to their neighborhood, right? Standing
in front of the project, standing in
front of their block with everybody out
there.
body warm heart and you just get
admitted and it's walking.
[Music]
>> That uh trope has been like repeated in
too many videos to name, but I'm just
thinking of like like Wu, you know,
popularized that for sure. Nas. Yeah. I
mean, it was a big I think a big trope
in in hip-hop videos. Like I'm I'm
succeeding. I'm popular. Like I have a
video. There's a video crew here, but
I'm not I haven't forgot where I came
from because my people are here with me.
I mean there's I mean that is still a
hip-hop video trope for sure.
>> Okay. Trope for me. Band videos.
>> Uh the other musicians are not allowed
to do anything.
>> The lead singer is the only person who
matters in a music video. Trope. Every
once in a while somebody interesting in
the band would do something, but it's
rare. If you're in a band, it's Michael
Stipe all day long.
[Music]
But even was a little more generous in
that regard. I mean, I think those guys
really thought of them as a quartet. But
like, you know, or Red Hot Chili
Peppers, at least Flee and Anthony Ketus
were very apparent together in those
videos, but basically, you know, lead
singer lead singerville.
>> I have a question. So, is this only
applicable to rock bands or is it also
applicable to R&B groups?
>> No. Same thing. Now, the problem of
course with the group video trope is it
exposes the like insufficiencies
of of certain acts
>> with with the groups. You're kind of
like, but wait, what what does Lance
Bass do?
>> Like, Lance,
>> what is what is Joey's point again? I
kind of get what JC is all about, but
really this just seems like it's all
about Justin. Sorry, Chris Kurpatre. I
don't I don't know.
>> Also, I mean, I think that can be also
applied to Destiny's Child. There was
even um
>> Oh, 100%.
>> There was even this really funny Mad TV
skit from back in the day. One of my
favorite things was that Mad TV would
spoof the music videos of the era. And
there was this one spoofing the uh
Destiny Child video for uh Emotions.
And it's just
>> isn't that the one with the three of
them just like like side by side by
side.
>> Yes. They're like a they're in a tptic
and they're like Beyonce has her story
line, Kelly, Michelle have their story
line, and then by the end of it, I
believe that they converge, right? In
this Mad TV spoof, Deborah Wilson plays
Beyonce.
>> Deborah Wilson.
>> And the the Beyonce's little uh triangle
or her
sliver of the screen of the split screen
is in the middle and by the end of it
she's over and she pushes everybody else
out and so the lyrics emotions are it's
just emotions taking me over right but
then in Deborah Wilson's version it's
it's just Beyonce taking it over right
>> oh which leads to another trope na
>> the wind fan the industrial strength
wind fan
>> okay yes
>> I mean that you So, the heavy metal guys
started it, but Mariah picked it up.
>> Okay.
>> And then, you know, Beyonce picked it
up. Got to have the hair must blow at
all times. If it's not blowing, I'm not
going.
>> Yep. I would also add another trope
which is the for a while in hip-hop
videos there was this like thing where
it would be all black space people
having fun people posing people doing
whatever people dancing
>> and then there would be like a white
person a random white person that would
come into the video
>> even white boys got to shout
[Music]
>> and they would kind of make fun of them
right it was just like they're at a
house party and somebody a white guy
just starts dancing or like there's like
some awkward white person doing
something and it was just like
>> go white.
>> There was a commentary on I think
hiphop's you know widening reach
>> and the fact that at some point in the
early 2000s late 90s it was probably
mostly young white teenagers buying
albums. So there was this like
interesting moment of like wanting to
invite them in but also to make fun at
the same time
>> to let them know there's a line.
>> Yep. And you know, good luck trying to
cross it. Although, you know, that ship
is basically sailed.
>> Yeah.
>> Great. That's a great one. I forgot
about that. I never It never even
occurred to me.
>> I would also add one more, and again,
this is from hip-hop and '9s music uh
hip-hop and R&B of the late 90s, early
2000s, and that's this effort to
showcase technology.
>> Yes.
>> Right. So, there's
>> We were futuristic.
>> We were very futuristic people. I'm
thinking of like the two-way pagers in a
number of videos. I'm thinking of the
two-way pager in Nelly and Kelly's
video.
>> Nelly and Kelly Roland's dile dilemma
video where she pulls out her 2-way and
she wants to text him her boyfriend
something, but she ends up typing into
an Excel spreadsheet, right? So, we were
like
>> trouble.
>> Talk about a dilemma.
so eager to show ourselves as like being
like techsavvy and with it but you know
into but you know corlarily there's the
visionary version of that too where you
get it leads you to TLC's waterfalls
>> to Busta and Janet's uh what's it going
to be I mean I think that like in the
same way that that that
you know black musicians were in the 70s
thinking about outer space
>> you know other dimensions I think those
same priorities
In the 80s, we we were interested in
robotics and computer
>> becoming robots.
>> And I think in in music videos around
the late 90s and early 2000s, the
question was how do we become just
technology?
>> Okay, you are in you're getting to my
final trope. I think I keep saying I
don't have
>> You keep finding new ones. Keep finding
ones. Your trope is a trove.
>> My I have a trove of tropes. Okay. It's
the feminist empowerment trope
>> where women get together to go up
against a guy, right? Love is love is a
battlefield. Love is a battlefield.
Whitney Houston's it's not right but
it's okay.
>> Oh yes.
>> Where all the women come together at the
end or like towards the end where she's
got all this evidence against her
husband or her man like you said it was
you were talking to the guys from up
54th Street but it was an LA area code.
You know she has all
>> two or three. Exactly. show up on my
caller ID.
>> Why did two and three show up on my
caller ID? You know, why did you You
said you went out with two people or
four people. It was the guys, but it was
just two people in your credit card
receipt. I found, you know, so she's
laying out all this and then she has
these women supporters that come up
behind her.
She's wearing a dominatrix outfit
with this short bob and like a neck
thing or like some kind of collar.
>> She's got a choker.
>> You got a little choker on. She's giving
like very dominatrix. Um, and then I'm
also thinking of
>> K.
[Music]
I hate you so much.
>> I hate you so much so much right now.
Yep. Yep. From 1999 2000.
>> Yes. It's hilarious and over the top and
so campy. There are these women coming
out of their houses to join the to join
this group. And I mean, they're
communicating something about feminism,
but I really don't know what it is
because I think feminism is after, you
know, more important ideals than like
helping a man. Right. Right. But they're
all there and they have signs.
>> Yes. Yes. I hate you so much right now.
>> Exactly. So that might be my favorite.
They're just deployed so so uh commonly
and uh for like really confusing means.
Go ahead. Say something. You were going
to say something.
>> No, I'm listening to you.
>> Oh, okay. Dos. Dos and don'ts. Okay, one
of my dos is I think I think the main do
in a music video is to create like some
really indelible imagery, something
that's like again slightly mysterious,
slightly hard to parse that will keep
people coming back to it. You know, I've
mentioned the rain already, which to me
was like a ancient rune. I'm up in the
middle of the night just like trying to
better understand it. And I think that's
what I think is a major do for me is
just like to make something that begs
repeating, begs repeat viewing that are
going to keep people coming back to it.
>> Something like um Dennis Edwards and say
Gary.
>> Oh,
[Music]
>> that really cheap chromy what they call
chromacy and they're like standing in
front of is it a pyramid background?
>> Some kind of like funny photo studio
background.
>> Yes. I really love that, you know, class
picture day, you know, at the at like,
you know, the carnival vibe.
>> Yeah. It's so simple, but there's so
much of it that is like appealing to me
and just so like captivating. Like why
is he wearing a tuxedo?
>> Right. Why don't they match? Cuz she's
wearing some like typical '8s garb.
Yes.
>> Yeah.
My major don't is like when when music
video directors make the video extremely
literal.
>> Oh,
>> if they haven't committed to if they
haven't committed to it. So, there are
some exceptions, but like we don't
really need to see because the music
video is a separate thing from the song
itself. We don't need this like close
read of exactly what's happening or this
like close adaptation or translation of
the lyrics. Like you can do feel free to
do something slightly different. I like
the rewatchability idea and I think the
people who were really successful I mean
you know I know I said what I said about
the bands earlier but then I was
thinking you know how much time I spent
>> watching MTV's 120 minutes
>> their alternative music situation
>> and 120 minutes was where all the really
great groundbreaking videos I mean
that's where most of them really
happened right my first radio heads
happened there they might be giant were
great music video people like Anna Ang.
I don't know if anybody remembers this
song. There's a great video for this
song called Anna Ang and it's by They
Might Be Giants and it's just a bunch of
like what I'm going to describe as like
it's not found footage but it's sped up
imagery from all over the place. I'm
going to misremember the video, but I
distinctly remember watching that thing
over and over and over again just to a
hear the song, but mostly to see the way
in which this song that is inscrutable
in many ways is telling me what it
thinks it means. So, a lot of the times
you you object to a literalization. I
object to well, I don't object. I love a
video that is trying to literalize the
inscrutable. M. Okay.
>> And some of those videos were just, you
know, a world of fascination alongside a
world of fascination.
>> Yep. Yep. So, Wesley, what are some of
your dos and don'ts?
>> Oh, I mean, I'll keep it brief. I just
want things to make sense in the video.
I want every
motif to add up to something. I don't
even need a lot of motifs. Don't motif
me. or just give me one,
>> but don't give me seven different scenes
that don't mean anything.
>> Just pick a pick an pick a studio, pick
a set, and just stay in it.
>> Tell me a story in this set. Or if
you've got a few sets, make it add up to
something.
>> Also, related to this is costume
changes. This is they're the same. It's
the same complaint, but I like I know
you had the money to spend on these four
outfits, but I only need one.
>> I just need one. Save it for the next
video. Cuz if we're talking about 1995,
you're going to get three more cracks,
Tony Braxton.
>> Right. Just Just give me one look. One
look. May maybe two.
>> Mhm.
>> That's all I need.
>> Yeah.
>> Just There's some continuity errors all
up and through those videos for sure.
because nobody's thinking about that
>> and no logic to it either.
>> And often you can get away with it
because I'm just here for the artist,
right? I don't care about continuity.
But if enough people show you something
that makes that is coherent, right? If
enough especially if you're an artist
who I thought
>> believed in coherence and you go and do
something sloppy, I don't really know
what to do with that. Why are we
changing our clothes? You don't. You're
not a clothes changer. Just stick with
the program. Madonna, Madonna, you do
that sometimes. Sometimes you just like
change your clothes for no reason.
You've done it and it drives me nuts cuz
you're so good at the music video.
>> Okay. I want to take what we just talked
about and try to apply it to what's
happening to the music video now. Um
because first of all I should ask you do
you even where do you think the art form
is currently
>> versus
you know what you were watching when you
were a teenager what you were watching
when you were in your 20s because at
some point we enter the streaming era
what is happening um from your
perspective
>> I'll say I think there are some people
who are still making some great videos
there's there people who are very
visually minded have great aesthetic
impulses and really care about the
medium of the music video. Those people
still exist and there are some great
music videos that still come out, but I
think the state of the music video is
greatly diminished. I think part of my
reasoning for that is that like some of
the like biggest artists of our time
don't even make music videos anymore,
right?
>> Um Beyonce, I think notably for um
Cowboy Carter didn't make any music
videos. They're like
>> or for Renaissance
>> or for Renaissance. there are these
visualizations, these like looping like
moments of, you know, these these
moments of like the artist doing
something that just get looped and
looped and looped.
>> Mhm.
>> So, I think I think it's that I think
it's this notion that like you have to
make reals or like Tik Toks or very like
bite-sized sort of uh visual
accompaniment for these projects. And I
think that's part of the problem. Um,
speaking to something you mentioned
earlier, you said that one of the
appeals of music videos when you were a
kid, when you first got MTV at your
dad's house, it was the ability to spend
time with with these artists, right?
Yes.
>> And for a while, I mean, that was the
only way you could spend time with them.
That's the only way you could see what
their hair was doing or what what
fashion was like, right? And now you can
just open your phone and you can just go
to a person's page and see what they're
doing. You can see like what they ate
for breakfast. you can you can just kind
of you don't need the um technology of a
music video to spend time with them. You
can do that in a multitude of ways
today. And it feels like we're losing
the art form of the music video to
social media, right? People are on their
phones. Um and so they're not as like
important. They they don't have as much
of a space in the culture anymore.
>> Uh Naella, I looked at um MTV's
programming guide
>> the other day. Yeah,
>> for just Tuesday.
>> Mhm.
>> What's happening today on a Tuesday in
September?
>> Makes me so sad.
>> Ridiculousness is what's happening.
>> Oh my gosh.
>> And I don't mean ridiculousness the
experience. I mean ridiculousness the
television show.
>> Yep. All day long. Let's think through
like the industrial concern here, right?
Because you know historically the thing
that kept music videos from being taken
seriously from the outset was that they
we didn't use this word back then but
they were treated like content, right?
And they were essentially a commercial
for this long form music format called
the album. Mhm.
>> And each video was essentially
bankrolled by the by the record company
>> to promote an album, to sell albums, to
sell songs, but also sell albums.
>> And I think that what has happened
essentially is,
>> you know, MTV wasn't paying to to run
these videos. I mean, it was like a
please play our video MTV, break our
artist, sell us millions of albums,
please. And now in the streaming era,
they don't need MTV anymore, right?
>> MTV, you know, in theory, if they really
wanted to stay in business, they'd be
paying they'd be paying the labels
themselves. Like, it's just not in an
artist's interest now
>> to just throw the music video on MTV
where like Paramount, Viacom,
>> sorry, Sky Dance.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, Lord.
>> Sky Dance gets all the money. And so it
so it's ridiculousness all day long.
Yeah,
>> the VMAs are this weekend and I just
sort of wanted to think through this
award show. It's been 41 years of this
show.
>> And you know, it's in addition to them
giving out a bunch of awards, it was an
award show where cool things happened,
right?
>> They were an alternative to the
perceived stodgginess of the Grammys.
And indeed, many people who never got to
go to the Grammys got to go to the MTV
Video Music Awards a lot. Do you
remember your first one?
>> Yeah, I think my first one must have
been the 1999 VMAs.
>> I remember distinctly because I think it
was so captivating before the awards
proper had actually started. I'm
>> in the comfy confines of the mess
balcony here with little Kim and little
C. There's this moment where little Kim
comes out of the limo or the car or
whatever and she has the Diana Ross
year.
>> This is the Diana Ross year. This is the
year with the purple outfit, the purple
wig, and the exposed breast.
>> Yes, she got a little pasty over it.
>> Kim, I thought Rudy Giuliani, the mayor
of New York, had outlawed outfits like
this. This is amazing.
>> And it was so shocking. I don't think
I'd ever seen anything like that in my
life. And it was just like, what is
happening here? like like I have to see
if she makes it on if she makes it on
the awards. Right.
>> Oh, she made it.
>> She made it on the awards. Not only did
she make it on the awards, but Diana
Ross,
>> she presents an award.
>> She presents an award. She comes
>> with the one and only.
>> Where's Diana Ross? And then she like
leans across her body and jiggles her
breast.
And it was like I don't think I mean it
was so shocking. I feel like it was
like, why is this older person doing
this thing you're not supposed to do,
right? Like,
>> exactly.
>> Even though they're both women, there's
some there's something strange about
what just transpired.
>> I love the generational black history.
>> Yeah.
>> I loved the like, oh, so this is what
we're doing now.
>> Yeah.
>> This is where pop music is.
>> Oh, no. I'm I'm calling Mary right now.
>> We need This is unacceptable.
>> That that
>> But also, it wasn't judgy. It wasn't
judgy.
>> It was playful. This is cute,
>> right?
>> I love it.
>> Um, but it was like all the tabloids
could talk about for the next week and a
half. Um,
>> scenes like that happened
>> every year. There was always something.
>> Yes.
>> Madonna kissing Britney and Christina.
Yep.
>> You know, we'll we'll just leave it at
that. Madonna rolling around on the
floor in in the in the wedding dress
doing like a virgin. I mean, that's the
antics that happen on stage, right? And
it has nothing to do
>> with the actual winner of video of the
year. Mhm.
>> So, I just want to do a little exercise
here. I don't want to take you on a on a
micro tour of 41 years of winners.
>> I'm not going to go through them all,
but you know, if I said to you Peter
Gabriel Sledgehammer,
[Music]
>> can you see the video?
>> Yes.
>> Oconor, nothing compares to you. These
are all winners.
>> Yes,
>> you can see the video.
>> Yes. TLC's Waterfall.
[Music]
>> So, you can see the video.
>> Madonna's ray of light.
>> Can you see the video?
>> I can see it.
>> Um, like a ray of
>> light.
Dingy ding. Um, M&M's without me.
>> Can you see the video?
>> Yes.
>> Uh, Missy Elliot's working. It's your
wedding.
>> Can you see it?
>> Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
>> Oh, let's see. Lady Gaga's Bad Romance.
>> It's starting to
>> Great video. It's a big interesting what
you're about to say. What are you about
to say?
>> I'm starting to say that my memory is um
I'm starting to lose my memory as some
of the ones that you're mentioning in
the 2010s.
>> This is fascinating. Katy Perry's
fireworks.
[Music]
Yes, kind of.
>> Uh-huh. This is interesting. Camila
Cabo's
[Music]
>> heart
>> vaguely.
>> The look on your face is great.
>> I feel unprepared.
>> So, I'll just catch us up. The last 10
years of the video of the year MTV video
music award winners are mostly Taylor
Swift. Mostly Taylor Swift. She wins in
2015 for Bad Blood. Beyonce wins for
Formation in 2016. Kendrick Lamar wins
for Humble in 2017. Camila Cabo I
mentioned 2019. Taylor Swift and You
Need to Calm Down. Crazy. The weekend's
Blinding Lights in 2020. Taylor Swift's
All Too Well. Taylor Swift wins 2022,
2023, and 2024.
>> Wow. Okay.
>> Like, this is where we are. And an
important development happens between
like NXS winning for Ninja Tonight
Mediate in 1988 or '89, which is
basically that the fans begin to vote in
2006.
>> And so, starting in around 2006, it's no
longer industry people, um, the artists
voting for these awards. It's us.
>> And so what does that list of those the
last 10 years of this award video of the
year mean? What is that saying to you?
>> I mean, I'm thinking the first thing
that comes to mind is just like um the
homogenization of the last 10 years in
terms of like who's up for it. Um who's
winning? It seems like the last 10 years
are kind of skewed more toward pop
music.
>> Yep. Yep.
>> Or mainstream pop. And and I think like
it seems to me like this is a moment
where fandoms are taking over,
>> right? Like we know that the Swifties
are a huge
>> constituent, huge voting block.
>> It's interesting because once you allow
that to happen, it also changes. I think
that change, that shift in 2006
mirrors the sort of technological and
therefore cultural shift in terms of how
the videos are going to be ingested.
>> Yep. Right. I mean, because in some way,
Na,
>> the art form has never been more
quantifiably popular,
>> right? Because most people now
experience their music videos in
YouTube.
>> On YouTube. Mhm. We never knew how many
people watch David Bowy's Let's Dance
>> or, you know, DJ Jazzy Jeff and the
Fresh Prince's parents just don't
understand
>> or Onyx's slam video. We don't know.
>> We didn't have numbers.
>> But now we have I can see
>> that, you know, for instance,
>> you know, Lady Gaga and Bruno Mars's Die
with a Smile was watched I think, you
know, a billion times. Yeah. at least
maybe 1.2.
>> I think that the um views on YouTube
count towards a song's streaming count.
>> It's it's factor it's chart popularity
is chart popularity. Yeah. Those so
those streams are factored in. So in
some way
>> or chart position, I should say.
>> Yeah. They're extreme. They're like
music videos in some ways are more
important than ever in terms of like
their ability to sway a song's success
or to determine its fluctuation up and
down the Billboard charts, but in other
ways like culturally it just feels like
they're just like marginalized, you
know, at the same time. Just a very very
strange moment to like be a music a fan
of music videos
>> content.
>> It's content. So in some ways the video
we're not really that concerned with the
video. We experience it but only to only
for the song.
>> Yes.
>> The video is like a vestage of a period
in which it was once a primal source of
like artistic imagination
>> and commercial viability and industrial
weather veining, right? M
>> and so we have this award show, the
Video Music Awards,
>> which for the first time are going to be
shown on network TV.
>> CBS is broadcasting, which means you can
probably watch it on the Paramount
streaming network, Paramount Plus. But
it also means that you can't just rely a
a CBS broadcast award show can't live on
videos alone.
>> Right. Right.
>> They've now added album of the year,
>> song of the year. What?
>> Yes. And these other non video oriented
categories.
>> That's wild.
>> It is crazy. So it's just like so now
they're just doing things like that the
Grammys would do, which by the way,
>> home home of the Grammys on CBS.
>> CBS.
>> So they have kind of grammified the
VMAs.
>> It's a tragedy. Within this tragedy, I
just want to take a second
>> to just like look at, celebrate, cry
over, thumbs down
>> these seven nominees. Let's do it
>> cuz they're here. I think we should do
it. Where should we start? Naila,
>> where should we start?
>> I'm going to
>> I'm just going to say Ariana Grande.
>> Okay.
>> Ariana Grande is nominated for a bunch
of these things. The video in the quote
video unquote is brighter days ahead.
>> Mhm.
>> It is a 27 minute
>> long form video.
>> So she's already got one good trope
going. Y
>> like a like a movie.
>> This is an extension of of an old music
video,
>> Eternal Sunshine,
>> where she is riffing on. She wants to
forget an ex-boyfriend.
>> It's the the concept here is Eternal
Sunshine of the Spotless Mind.
>> And now our friend Ariana Grande wheeled
into some memory company
>> by an attendant to erase her four
remaining memory eggs.
>> Yep. And I mean this, you know, it's
like conceptually it's eternal sunshine
of the spotless mind is mostly coming
from there, but there's also a little
bit of inside out and there is
>> so many things happening. That is inside
out.
>> It's inside out with the memory, the
core memories coming down the little um
>> thing or whatever. I I find this to be
um I found it to be really interesting
and really kind of I could see what she
was aiming for.
>> I could see the ambition.
>> I could see what was being aimed for.
>> I could I could see it. But um I think
the the thing that was most striking to
me about this video was like the moment
when she plays her first core memory.
>> Okay, it says here you have four
memories left
>> and it's for the song intro into the
world.
>> Mhm.
>> And we see these this like a stream of
uh home videos like from this
character's youth. The thing that I like
or I find interesting about this moment
is that there's this like moment of
convergence between the personal and the
professional.
>> Yes. Those videos appear to be Ariana
Grande's own family videos.
>> Yes. And it just sort of it it it made
me think the first thing I thought of
was YouTube itself, right? Like and when
you watch YouTube and the first thing I
do
>> I love this.
>> I like to watch YouTube but I also like
to read the comments as well. And down
in the comments, you see people talking
just all about like when they first
heard a song and this is a shout out to
my girlfriend and we first met in 1984
and we drove down Lake Lakes Drive and
we played this song, etc., etc. And just
how like entwined like music is with
people's personal memories, right? We've
been talking about music videos and our
like personal relationship to them. I
bet we could mark moments in our life by
certain videos, right? And it just it
kind of it just sort of to me was like
this like palums of personal and
entertainment and how it all comes
together particularly in YouTube.
>> It's deeply nostalgic. But here's my
question.
But really, I'm going to ask Ariana.
Ariana,
where's the joy? Where's the twinkle?
Where's the glenda of it all? Where's
the wicked? Where's the shade? You made
this after you shot at least one wicked
movie. Like what are we doing? Where is
it? Like you look catatonic the entire
time. Why? Because my favorite thing
about Wicked is I didn't want to see
that movie.
>> Mhm.
>> But Ariana Grande is so good in it.
>> And she's not even giving press tour.
She's not even giving wicked press tour
in this in this video. And I like what's
missing from it is what I would describe
as the thing that we were going home to
see which was the something that was
distinct from the movies but was giving
you what the movies had the power to
give you which is stardom. We now talk
about it as main character energy,
>> right?
>> Yeah.
>> That used to just be movie star. That
used to just be music video star.
>> And nobody, very few people are giving
that. But I want to say it is not absent
from this category. The next video I
think we should talk about with respect
to video stardom is maybe Sabrina
Carpenters's Manchild.
>> I really like that video.
Why you always
>> And it's a it's a video inspired by
movie trailers, right? So there's a
cinematic element of it.
[Music]
>> Um it's taking its motion or it's it's
main thrust from trailers and the
chaotic energy in trailers. It's this I
guess the loose plot of it is that
Sabrina Carpenter is hitchhiking across
the American West and she's riding with
men and she gets into a variety every
name a kind of man she's in a car or
some vehicle with it
>> single guys ofular types I mean every
kind of man in these cars and she's just
ming moving from chaotic moment to
moment from strange image to strange
image where kind of bleeds into like
uncanny valley. In fact, I feel like the
whole video is taking place in some
uncanny valley in the American West. Um,
but like a strange image of Sabrina
sitting in a diner and an elephant
crashing through, right? Like the
elephant in the room. It's just evoking
all kinds of things. And um there's this
really wonderful moment. I think I we
were talking earlier. I was saying one
of the things I really treasure in a
music video is evocative imagery like
mysteries, visual mysteries. mineral
mysteries.
>> So, there's this moment where she's in
what could be a station wagon or old
school sedan and there's a chandelier
hanging from the roof.
>> The the art direction in this thing is
fantastic.
>> It's so fantastic.
>> This is nominated for edit uh best
editing. It is it almost it I'm not
going to say it's the only winner, but
it definitely deserves to win best
editing.
>> For sure.
>> Um this is a video driven by a concept
and in some ways Sabrina Carpenters is
the the the passenger.
>> Yes. um so to speak. I mean, she's
literally the passenger, but also like
given the sort of the high concept
nature of the video, she also was a
passenger in that, too.
>> Yep.
>> I love this video.
>> Yeah.
>> My only note on this video is if you've
seen her in Espresso, you know that
she's a world-class lip-syncer, droll as
the day is long. And there's not enough
of that here. She does do some
lip-syncing,
>> but she's so good at it. She's so good
at performing the song in the world of
the video. Yes. I wanted more of that.
But some of the like dream imagery that
comes through just in in one cut, right?
It lasts for a second the shot. But
>> I remember seeing I think it's an axe as
a gear shift, right?
>> Yep. Um so it's a it's evoking too like
AI slop, right? And how all this stuff
comes together in our in our algorithms
and our consciousnesses. It's like it's
a very I think of the- moment video in a
strange kind of sort of um understated
way.
>> And the person in it is a star.
>> Yes.
>> In the world of this video, there's no
way to leave it and not think
>> this is a person who has complete
control, complete self-standing,
knows how to wink.
>> Yep. and she's playing with all these
sort of um ideas about innocence and um
maturity and she's giving like Dolly
Parton like this is very Dolly Parton 9
to5 era kind of like she's like there's
like a hold up that happens in the video
>> she's got the 9 to5 hair
>> the 9 to5 hair also Ethan Cohen's recent
like mad capers
the yes yes what I would call the
lesbian caper movies
>> um it's got a little bit of Tarantino
you But I actually think she's more
Olivia Newton John. I mean, literally in
this video, she's got Dolly Parton's wig
and everything, but there's something
kind of Olivia Newton John, both as a
vocalist and as a screen performer,
>> cokeheaded cokeheadish sort of kittenish
sort of like
>> Yes. But winking in a way that that
Olivia Newton John didn't need to. But
now, you know, given our our politics, I
mean, the Anyway, we don't need to get
into the politics of Sabrina Carpenter
now, but she gets the joke, y'all.
>> She knows what the joke is. She's
telling it.
>> Yep. And there's somewhere in my mind
that Chandelier is still tinkling.
>> I'm still thinking about what it all
means. and how it's connected to Prada
Marfa which is this art installation out
in the west and just like what kind of
commentary she's making on visual
spectacle and art and reference and
>> it's just yeah I'm just thinking of that
that chandelier still. So
>> um next
>> Kendrick Lamar's not like us.
>> Beat your ass and hide the Bible if God
watching.
They not like us. They not like us.
>> I mean, you and I have talked about this
song.
>> It never gets old. It's so deep. There's
so much going on. I had not spent a lot
of time with the music video, unlike 388
million other people. But man, this
really according to my taxonomy,
this is a very satisfying
bunch of things thrown and let's see
what how it how it goes.
>> Yep.
>> I love this thing both for its
insideriness, right?
>> Yes. I, you know, just to be clear about
some of the iconography in the video, it
it opens at an a Martin Luther King
memorial in Compton, California.
>> And this is another This video I This
video is doing everything you love,
Naila,
>> and nothing you don't like.
>> It has assembled a bunch of people
>> to celebrate and shout along to the
lyrics of this song.
>> Yes. It's a past memorial. Yep. I mean
it is a it is it feels like a national
posi.
>> Yes.
>> They not like us. They not like us. They
not like us.
>> And then there are the cutaways to such
places as I would say uh like a kind of
padded cell environment
>> in which like a very bright padded cell
environment in which Kendrick Lamar sits
with for I'm going to shorthand this.
You feel free to fill in if you need to
explain who these clowns are. They're
actual people in clown makeup and clown
clothes. Crumpin, but they're not like
they're true clowns.
>> Led by Tommy the Clown.
>> Yes. Led by the
the one and only Tommy the Clown. And
that's one set. And then another set is
at some point in the middle of the
video, we're standing a bunch in a front
of a bunch of shipping containers. That
is some grim imagery only in terms of
like what Kendrick Lamar is suggesting.
He's the co-director of this video
>> and you know he's arguing that the
shipping containers might have once at
one point contained contained women
>> contained women and also I mean there's
also the importance of us right of the
middle passage you know not to get too
heavy but I mean when you see a black
person in front of a shipping container
I mean there's so many associations and
that's a major one
>> and he changes clothes
>> he changes clothes
>> it's a great costume change into a suit
And throughout he's wearing clothes by
Martin Rose who's a lauded uh black
British fashion designer. Like it's very
much like black pride he's giving
throughout the video. And it's it's just
such a dense text. You know, there's so
many references and Easter eggs, the
things that he said in the song and
through of of of other moments
throughout the beef and other arguments
he's making about Drake, right,
>> in the video. And for me, I mean, again,
another how we live now moment for me is
just like the rapacity with which
fandoms go online and Reddit and they
they have their like um theories about
what all the imagery means and and like
just like all the double entandras and
triple antron entandras that are in
Kendrick's songs, particularly his beef
songs, the songs that he had in the beef
with Drake. I mean, just the sequence
alone where he's doing the push-ups in
the, you know, fake prison cell that's
really just a bright white set.
>> Yep. And there are paintings or canvases
that are turned away from the audience's
view. So, there's art on the other side
of it. We just don't know what it is,
right? It's very, very much like Miles
Davis turning his back to the audience,
right? Like, I'm I'm playing for you,
but but you can't have everything, you
know? Yes.
>> And I think that's another message that
Kendrick is imparting in this video.
>> I love that so much. That's so good. I I
think this music video
>> I think it's a great music video from
the standpoint of the way we've been
talking about like what a what a
successful one is.
>> Yes.
>> It's a great Kendrick performance. Yes.
>> It's a wonderful Kendrick music video
performance. And in terms of like the
power of chanting not like us, having
like hundreds of people shout them at a
camera.
>> Y
>> that is at the Martin Luther King
memorial. It is simultaneously chilling
for its
>> insidiousness
>> but also for its history. You know, like
the way that it's these people have
gathered to like essentially expune
somebody excommunication happening,
right? Yeah.
>> It's really Anyway, we got to move on,
but
>> that video is a winner. Next.
>> Timeless.
>> Timeless,
[Music]
>> the weekend, and Playboy Cardi.
>> Playboy Cardi. This video is a very dark
video.
Literally, it is it is it is literally
dark.
>> Literally and figuratively dark. You
have The Weekend and Playboy Cardi on a
sound stage somewhere. They are
performing their lyrics to the camera
while a bunch of women gyate around them
in a very joyless way. If I can say
>> how you look.
>> These women look lost.
>> They do.
>> They look confused. Sh keep around. She
want to get hit.
>> And I hate to be this person, but it's
like they got out of one of those
containers that Kendrick is dancing in
front of and they're like, "Wait, where
are we?"
>> I mean, there's
>> all said we was coming to Kendrick. This
ain't Kendrick.
>> Where are we?
>> There's a moment where one of the women
looks at the camera and breaks the
fourth wall and she's like,
>> she's like, "What is going on here?" The
reason I mean I I found this to be like
sort of like a
>> it is this is the darkness
>> almost a photo negative of those bad boy
videos we talked about right like if if
the bad boy videos are trying to impart
this idea of like shininess and success
and new negroes
>> playboy Cardi has a jersey on a jersey
that says Iverson on it right backwards
>> wearing it backwards to Alan Iverson
>> but also he's got tags all on his
throughout his clothes right it's like a
joke, right? Or or some kind of like
>> um way of referencing just the the new
negroness energy of those old videos,
right? Like it's just
>> but the but the new negro was happy.
This video is so dark and you know, we
can't get a decent clean shot of really
anything except blinding lights.
Blinding lights for some reason is the
only thing we can really see clearly.
>> Okay, moving on. Uh there are two the
the two Bruno Mars videos are nominated.
APT is is the first video and Die with a
Smile is the other one. You and I had a
wonderful conversation about this man
and these two songs.
>> Neither one of those is going to win. I
don't think either one of those should.
A video I do think should win though
>> is Billy Eyish's Birds of a Feather.
[Music]
Tell me why.
>> I just feel like this is such a great
like star performance.
>> The video is really like a subconscious
dream of the song
>> to me.
>> Tell me about the setting.
>> She's in an office. She's in a
workplace. She's in an office like appar
like interviewing. She's sitting where
you know an interviewee would sit. We
don't see a desk, but she's in a chair.
>> And while she's like really giving
the song to us um with her eyes, with
her snarls, with her sides, she's being
pulled somewhere like her arm starts to
move
>> and then she she sits again and she
continues and then there's another tug
>> and all of a sudden she is being dragged
through this office space. She's
crashing through walls. She's falling
into glass coffee tables and just being
dragged some more. There's a This video
to me is about the helplessness in some
ways of her own behavior toward the
person in the song. I feel pulled
>> Yeah.
>> in a lot of different directions
>> by things I can't control.
>> Y
>> I also feel guilty about how I act and I
can't control that either. And I mean I
just I was most struck by just like the
juxaposition of her youth
>> and probably isn't she's probably a
jinzier in an office building in a
dilapidated office building. Right. Like
>> and they probably got this on sale is
why they filmed it in it.
>> Right. But just like is there some
commentary she's trying to make about
her generation or its relationship to
work? It's relationship to work spaces.
I don't know. I could be putting 20 on
10. I thought, well, let's I'll take
your 20 uh and I'll give you back a 10,
a five, and five ones. What I will say
is like I actually think this is about
the labor
>> of being in a relationship, of being
famous, and the thing that's tugging at
her, we don't see, which is a great
special effect trick. And I just love
that she is the star of this thing the
whole time, and she never gives up the
lip-syncing part,
>> right? And there's nobody else in the
video. Yeah,
>> it's just her
>> and there's a chair that plays a crucial
role in it and so I I automatically
think of um Janet Jackson
principal video.
[Music]
Anyway,
>> I mean talk about a star performance
like iconic star performance. But yes,
>> I'm thinking about how those two videos
speak to each other and emotional labor.
>> That's deep. Naila damn. Okay, let's be
basic for one second. We've talked about
these nominees, these seven nominees.
Who Who's your winner?
>> I mean, it's between two people for me.
I think
>> Kendrick Lamar has had a banner year,
and I think this would just be another,
you know, thing in his trophy case, but
he truly deserves it. It's come get
another one.
>> It's such a rich text. It's such a
galvanizing moment in pop culture. Um,
and Sabrina Carpenter, I really enjoyed
that video and I think what she's doing
with
>> some of the imagery in the video, I
think speaks to that very controversial
cover of Man's Best Friend,
>> which is out right now.
>> Yeah. And the vague like traces of
Robert Maple Thorp in that cover, you
know, thousand%.
>> And it's just it's so provocative and
interesting. And both of those videos, I
think, speak to this moment in their own
ways. What about you?
I mean, obviously the Kendrick video. I
mean, it's funny cuz I I sat down with
all seven of them like in in one in one
sitting a couple of times. And well, I'm
I'm lying. I I couldn't watch the Ariana
Grande more than once. That wasn't
enough for me. But I liked the intimacy
and again the coherence of of Birds of a
Feather.
>> Um it's a great I mean both songs are
are are really good. I love Birds of a
Feather as a production musically and I
think that the the tightness and kind of
fragrance of that production like really
makes its way in to the music video.
>> But look, there's no there's no denying
>> to me that the sort of
power and
impenetrability of not like us as a
text. Um, it is a bottomless document
>> and I kind of love that you could
basically spend an entire semester
>> unpacking that thing. But yeah, I think
I think Kendrick's going to win, but I'd
be happy if Billy Isish or even Sabrina
Carpenter, but but mostly Billy Isish if
she won. Okay, so we got to go.
>> Yep.
>> This show is on Sunday. I don't know.
Oh, it's just meaningful to me that this
art form has never been being It no
longer feels primal to who we are as a
culture.
>> Yep.
>> And yet, it's telling to me that all
these young artists are still making
good videos.
>> Doi, great music video person. Yep.
>> Dual Lia, great music video person. Lola
Young, this person who just showed up in
the last year, her Messi video, just her
in one one space, did two takes.
>> It's fantastic.
>> Just last month, Tyler, the creator's
a slew of of beautiful and interesting
videos. And Little Sims is also another
great person.
>> Yes.
>> Yep.
>> So, it's saying to me that the medium is
still vital.
>> Yep. it. And these videos, I know that
we are practicing criticism on them to
unearth and extract the ways in which
they absorb the properties and sort of
formal priorities of social media, but
they exist for you and me and all the
YouTube viewers in the house
>> as music videos.
>> They're not Tik Toks. And so, there's
still a primacy there.
>> Yep.
>> There's some juice in that green.
>> There's a lot of juice in there. I think
the music video is in good hands.
>> You know, from the artist perspective,
from the industry perspective, I'm not
so sure. From perspective, I'm not so
sure. Um, but hopefully artists who are
increasingly independent-minded will
still find a way to deliver this art
form to us.
>> Nella,
>> we did it.
>> Thanks for coming.
>> Thank you for allowing me to relive my
youth.
>> Listen, I mean, that is like 40% of what
we do on the show. So,
>> thanks for cannonballing.
>> Thank you for having me again.
[Music]